All right.
So over the course of the next two lessons, I'd like to introduce you to two properties that Vue router
will automatically add to every view component in our app, and those properties are root and router
with an R at the end.
So these properties again are going to be available on every component and they're going to allow each
component to figure out which route it is currently on and also navigate the user elsewhere to another
path or to another route.
Now, you may recall from the previous section that we used a method called EMET.
We used that whenever we wanted our child component to emit an event to its parent.
And you may recall that that method began with a dollar sign, while these properties are also going
to begin with a dollar sign.
So it's going to be dollar sign root and dollar sign router, and they're both going to be available
on each component via the this keyword.
Okay.
So as a reminder for why we have that dollar sign, that dollar sign doesn't have any technical significance
in JavaScript.
It's just a regular character, no different than the letter A or the letter B, but the View Development
Team wants to give you a visual indicator that this is something internal or related to view.
It's kind of just a visual way for you to identify that this is something coming from view.
It also prevents any accidental conflict with, for example, your data properties because it's highly
unlikely that you would create a data property with a dollar sign.
So this is some way that they invented to distinguish themselves.
So you can know which parts are coming from your component set up and which parts are coming from them.
So Emit is coming from view.
So it's going to start with a dollar sign and in this case root and router are coming from Vue router
and they are also going to start with a dollar sign.
So what I'd like to do is take a look first at the root object, which is going to be available via
the this dot root property.
So I'm going to open up my job results view component right here.
And what I'm going to do here is I'm going to set up a computed property.
The reason it's going to be computed is because we're typically going to use the root to derive some
kind of data based on the route that we are currently on.
We're going to use that to figure out some alternate piece of data.
So since this is derived, since this is dependent on something else, it makes sense to put it in computed
versus just data.
And the reason I'm doing this is I just need some kind of method here that will allow me to console.log
the value of this dot root.
I need some way to access it.
So I'm just going to invent this arbitrary computed property here that will allow us to see the actual
root property in action.
So my name for my method here is completely arbitrary.
I'm just going to call it experiment.
And by the way, as a quick reminder, of course, our computed property is a JavaScript object with
a bunch of methods, and we can use those, those methods in line no differently than we would use a
data property.
So of course here in experiment is where I want to take my value of dollar sign root.
My root property, which again is now available on every Vue component in the app Vue router has made
that happen and I just want to console.log this so I can see what it looks like in my browser console.
Now the experiment computed property demands some kind of return value, so I'm just going to return
an arbitrary string of irrelevant.
It does not matter what we return here, we just need to return something.
And furthermore, if we leave our code like so, we're not actually going to see anything because Vue
has no reason to run the experiment computed property because we're not using it anywhere in our template.
So to actually use it, let's create a div right here.
Let's nassr h one inside it and below it I will put in the H2 and here we're going to reference that
experiment computed property using our double brace syntax.
We previously used this for data properties as well as computed properties.
They're the exact same syntax.
Just put the double curly braces and then we write the name of the computed property, which is experiment.
We do not need to invoke it, even though it is a method here.
Vue will automatically invoke it automatically for us.
So our view, our HTML is going to display the string irrelevant.
But what we really care about is this console.log.
So we can see that object that is available.
So let's transition to the browser and open up my.
Console.
And let me refresh the page just in case it's a little outdated.
And of course, the reason I'm not seeing anything is because I'm being very silly.
We put this in the job results page, so we have to navigate to job slash results to render the job
results view, which in turn will force the template to render, which of course will render the actual
computed property and thus do the console.log.
So finally, here it is.
Here is the object.
This is the dollar sign root property that is available via the this keyword on every single view component
interact.
And the whole purpose of this object, as you can probably guess, is to keep track of information metadata
about the root.
So for example, we have the name that we configured in our router index that Yes.
File, we have the path right here slash job slash results.
Right.
We have a whole bunch of information later on will be able to get things like params and query params.
So just a whole bunch of information in case we need to use it to dynamically determine some details.
We have this root property and we can use it in any component and take whatever these whatever properties
here we care about and do something with them in case it, for example, determines what we'd like to
render.
We can use them conditionally, like so, etc..
The point is, we now have access to this information in every component.
We don't need to do any additional configuration from any component.
We can always find out which route we are currently on and then do something with that information.
So that is the first property that I wanted to introduce you to.
And in the very next lesson, I will introduce you to a complementary property which is router with
an R at the end.
So I will see you there.